# README

The **only** development branch for M2 is `master`. This branch ultimately is responsible for creating the production branches that are finally published.

Production branches are automatically built, based on the master branch. Any changes made to those other branches will be overwritten!

**Remember:** `master` is the ONLY branch that should be edited and forked!

**Notes:** 

1. ONLY fork and submit pull-requests to the master branch `master`!
2. NEVER fork the production branches (below)!
3. NEVER publish/release the master branch `master` anywhere!

-----

# PRODUCTION BRANCHES

Production branches are always supposed to be stable and can be released/published at any time.


## M2 Pro (m2-pro)  

M2 Pro is the official premium plugin that lives on WPMU DEV.

## M2 (m2-free)  

M2 is the free limited version that gets published to the WordPress plugin directory.


-----

# DEVELOPMENT

As mentioned above: Only directly edit the branch `master`. Other branches should be only updated via grunt tasks (see section "Automation" below).

Important: Do not let your IDE change the **source order** of the code. Fixing up formatting is fine, but moving code blocks around is not! It will confuse grunt and produce problems.

## Implement version differences

As mentioned, we will only update the master branch with all changes, even if those changes only relate to a specific product (like Premium version). There are two ways to add code that is specific to a single product only:

1. Put the code into a product directory (prefered).
2. Wrap code in product conditions.

### Product directories

The prefered way to implement different code is to move pro code into the subfolder `/premium`. Code in the other directories is supposed to be core-plugin code (i.e. free plugin).

### Product conditions

There are special comments in the `master` branch will make sure some code only end up on the pro plugin and some code only end up in the free plugin.

Those are:

```
#!php 
/* start:pro */
echo 'This is only in m2-pro';  
/* end:pro */
  
/* start:free */
echo 'This is only in m2-free';  
/* end:free */
```


## Working with the branches

### Cloning

M2 uses submodules, so use the `--recursive` flag if you clone from command line:  

```
#!bash 
$ git clone git@bitbucket.org:incsub/membership-2.git --recursive  
```

If you already have a cloned repo, you will need to *init* the submodule.  

```
#!bash 
$ git submodule init --
$ git submodule update  
```

### JS and CSS files

Only edit/create javascript and css files inside the `/src` folders:

* `app/assets/js/src/*` for javascript.
* `app/assets/css/src/*` for css. Use .scss extension (SASS)!

Important: Those folders are scanned and processed when running grunt. Files in base of `app/assets/js/` and `app/assets/css/` are _overwritten_ by grunt.

*Note:*
There is a hardcoded list of js and scss files that are monitored and compiled by grunt. If you add a new js or scss file then you need to edit `Gruntfile.js` and add the new file to the file list in `js_files_concat` or `css_files_compile`.

### Folder structure

Plugin code:

* `app/` .. All code of the core (free version) goes here.
* `app/assets/` .. contains all images, js, css (scss) and font files.
> *Special folders inside asset:*
>  `app/assets/js/src/` (source js-files)
>  `app/assets/css/src/` (source scss-files)
>  
>  *Do not edit the .css and .js files in root of `app/assets/js` and `app/assets/css`, they are overwritten by grunt!*
* `premium/` .. All Premium-Only code belongs here!
* `docs/` .. Public API documentation. Generated by grunt build.
* `test/` .. contains PHP Unit Tests (run by grunt).

Files in these folders should not be modified directly:

* `lib/` .. External libraries and submodules.
* `languages/` .. contains .pot translation files (generated by grunt, do not modify).
* `node_modules/` .. files needed by grunt (see "Set up grunt" below).

Product folder `premium` also contain the same subfolders as the core plugin `app` folder.

**Naming convention for files/folders:**

* Prefix files that contian a php class with term "class-".
* Use lower-case only.
> Example: *"class-templatetag.php" not "class-templateTag.php"*
* Use hyphen "-" instead of underscore "_".
> Example: *"class-core.php" not "class_core.php"*


-----

# AUTOMATION

See notes below on how to correctly set up and use grunt. 

Many tasks as well as basic quality control are done via grunt. Below is a list of supported tasks.

**Important**: Before making a pull-request to the master branch always run the task `grunt` - this ensures that all .php, .js and .css files are validated and existing unit tests pass. If an problems are reported then fix those problems before submitting the pull request.

### Grunt Task Runner  

**ALWAYS** use Grunt to build M2 production branches. Use the following commands:  

Category | Command | Action
---------| ------- | ------
Edit | `grunt watch` | Watch js and scss files, auto process them when changed. Same as running `grunt js` and `grunt css` after each js/css change.
Edit | `grunt js` | Manually validate and minify js files. Do this after you merge changes or switch to a different branch.
Edit | `grunt css` | Manually validate and compile scss files to css. Same as js: After merge/switch branch.
Test | `grunt test` | Runs the unit tests.
**Build** | `grunt` | Run all default tasks: test, js, css. **Run this task before submitting a pull-request**.
Build | `grunt build` | Runs all default tasks + lang, builds all production versions.
Build | `grunt build:pro` | Same as build, but only build the pro plugin version.
Build | `grunt build:free` | Same as build, but only build the free plugin version.


### Update product versions

The example shows how to update the Pro-version, but the process for free version is identical.

1. **Switch** to branch `master`
1. Run **grunt** command `$ grunt build:pro`
1. **Switch** to branch `m2-pro`
1. Do a git **pull**, *possibly some conflicts are identified!*
1. Do NOT resolve the conflicts, but **revert** the conflicting files to last version!!
> Grunt already committed the correct file version to git. The conflicts are irrelevant!
1. Now **commit** and **push** the changes to bitbucket

### Set up grunt

#### 1. npm

First install node.js from: <http://nodejs.org/>  

```
#!bash 
# Test it:
$ npm -v

# Install it system wide (optional but recommended):
$ npm install -g npm
```

#### 2. grunt

Install grunt by running this command in command line:

```
#!bash 
# Install grunt:
$ npm install -g grunt-cli
```

#### 3. Setup project

In command line switch to the `membership` plugin folder. Run this command to set up grunt for the M2 plugin:

```
#!bash 
# Install automation tools for M2:
$ cd <path-to-wordpress>/wp-content/plugins/membership
$ npm install

# Test it:
$ grunt hello
```

#### 4. Install required tools

Same as 3: Run commands in the `membership` plugin folder:

```
#!bash 
$ cd <path-to-wordpress>/wp-content/plugins/membership

# Install composer:
$ php -r "readfile('https://getcomposer.org/installer');" > composer-setup.php
$ php composer-setup.php --filename=composer
$ php -r "unlink('composer-setup.php');"

# Install PHP Unit
$ php composer require --dev "phpunit/phpunit=4.8.*"

# Install PHP Code Sniffer:
$ php composer require --dev "squizlabs/php_codesniffer:2.*"

# Install WP Coding Standards:
$ git clone -b master https://github.com/WordPress-Coding-Standards/WordPress-Coding-Standards.git vendor/wpcs
$ vendor/bin/phpcs --config-set installed_paths ../../wpcs

# Config git with your Name/Email
$ git config user.email "<your email>"
$ git config user.name "<your name>"
```

### Set up wordpress-develop for unit tests

If the command `grunt test` fails you possibly need to follow these steps and install the wordpress-develop repository to your server.

The repository must exist at one of those directories:

* `/srv/www/wptest/wordpress-develop`
* `/srv/www/wordpress-develop/trunk`    
* Or set the environment variable `WP_TESTS_DIR` to the directory

(See: tests/bootstrap.php line 12-21 for logic)

```
#!bash 
# Create the directory at correct place:
$ mkdir /srv/www/wordpress-develop

# Download the WP-developer repository:
$ cd /srv/www/wordpress-develop
$ svn co http://develop.svn.wordpress.org/trunk/

# Run this to download latest WP updates:
$ cd /srv/www/wordpress-develop/trunk
$ svn up
```


### Unit testing notes

Introduction to unit testing in WordPress: http://codesymphony.co/writing-wordpress-plugin-unit-tests/
